In this demonstration, I'd like to show you Remote Desktop in Windows 10.
Let's open my Cortana search box and type remote desktop and the main option it
gives us here is Remote Desktop Connection and that's fine.
That's the client tool.
Notice that you expand or contract the options,
which I always recommend that you use.
As far as opening up the Remote Desktop Server Configuration,
let's return to Cortana and type remote access and we have
in the list Remote Desktop Settings.
Yes, this is what we want.
And it gives us some useful information and I'm glad it does.
It tells us that Remote Desktop lets you or others
connect to this PC from a remote device,
but look, available for iOS, Android, Mac,
and Windows.
That's a good point.
I have an iMac computer at my home and I use the Microsoft
Remote Desktop Client there to make connections to say my
work PC that runs Microsoft Windows.
It looks like that the server piece is off and it says
are you sure you want to do this.
Yes, I do.
And then there are some advanced settings that we can go to here,
including customizing the configuration port.
That's out of scope for our work today,
so I just wanted to show that much to you now.
I wanted to focus mainly on the client-side component that you see here.
I was thinking what we should use as an example.
I actually am a specialist in Microsoft Azure.
Azure is Microsoft's public cloud service and one of the many
things that they offer you is the ability to deploy and manage
virtual machines running in the Azure Cloud.
So from the Favorites list, this is the Azure web portal by the way,
the address is portal.
azure.
com, and I'm going to select Virtual machines here because I have one created.
This is a Windows Server 2016 virtual machine,
and if you're thinking Tim is this related at all to the Hyper-V
virtualization that we talked about briefly in the previous module,
the answer to that is yes.
Actually, in the Azure data centers that are spread all around the world,
those hardware hosts run Hyper-V.
I'm sure it's a specialized version,
but it's still Hyper-V and that these are Hyper-V virtual machines,
they just happen to be hosted up in Azure for us.
Let me open up a new tab here by clicking the new Tab button and just
parenthetically I'll mention if you go to Azure.
com and then click Start free,
you can get into Azure for free with no investment.
What I mean by that is you get a $200 service credit to be
used over 30 days and you can use it to kick the tires in
Azure and learn your way around.
Certainly, there is plenty of Pluralsight training on Azure.
Besides virtual machines, there are hosted websites,
there is machine learning, Internet of Things,
database, it's a huge cornucopia of services,
and even after that 30 days,
now there are certain services that give you 12 months of free tier access,
so that's nice as well.
So I wanted to mention that in passing.
Check the exercise files as well.
But you notice here that coming back to the Azure portal,
from my server-1 virtual machine, we have a public IP address,
this means that this virtual machine is connected to the internet,
obviously because it's in the Microsoft Azure public cloud,
it would have to be connected to the internet.
If we want to connect to it,
we can click this Connect button assuming that it's running,
and it is, and we're asked to download an RDP file.
Let me choose Save as and I'm going to put this on my desktop.
RDP, of course, stands for remote desktop protocol and this is the,
basically,
a shortcut to a specific instance of the Remote Desktop Connection client.
Now I'm not going to double left-click it,
instead, I'm going to right-click it and go to Edit.
Now you'll notice here that one of the options in the shortcut menu is bold.
The bold option is the default action that Windows takes when you double
left-click any shortcut icon or any icon period for that matter,
and the default action for RDP is connect.
So I'm going to again right-click and go to Edit and this
brings up the connection that you can customize.
Now it's going to connect to that public IP address that I showed you
in the Azure portal and it's going to use port 3389.
Remember that this is the default port ID used by Remote Desktop
Services and I'm going to supply the username Tim,
I'm going to save that, and then we can specify the graphical quality,
how big we want the window to be,
whether we want audio to play in the virtual machine,
to have it come to our local machine,
I'm going to leave all of these actually at their default and click Connect.
We're prompted, are you sure you want to do this.
We'll click Connect and then I'll supply the password.
Now I created this login when I deployed the virtual
machine You should understand that the virtual machine
doesn't just magically appear in Azure.
You actually have to create the connection yourself.
But as you see,
I'm being taken in now to a Windows Server 2016 VM that's
running in the Azure cloud and you'll see the window controls
here shows me the connection quality, we can pin or unpin the connection bar,
I like to keep it in most circumstances,
and then you can minimize, restore, or close the connection.
Minimize is cool because now I can continue work in my Windows 10 environment,
and if and when I want to do something on that server box,
all I have to do is come down to the task bar again.
If we right-click, the jump list allows you to reopen recent connections.
If you always want this shortcut to stay on the taskbar,
we could choose pin to taskbar or we can click inside the Preview window,
and now as I said,
here we are on that Windows Server machine and it's as if we were
logged on at the keyboard of this virtual machine,
although,
that's kind of funny to think of being at the keyboard of a machine that's not even real from a physical hardware perspective.